Oh
so part of the spring pond maintenance
is thinning out some of the aquatic
plants so they don't really take the
pond over this particular plant right
here pennywort
and it's it's actually a really cute
plant and some people love it and some
people hate it and I can tell you that
the people that hate it don't manage it
because if you let this thing take over
and really get in between all the rocks
and it's really hard to manage if you
let it take off so what we're going to
do is we're going to thin it out really
well this season this plant actually all
this is from back over here we have a
nice little cluster of it here and all
the runners have kind of made their way
here so if I don't manage it now the
runners are going to continue on by the
end of the year they'll be all over by
the skimmer so I'm just going to thin
back what we don't want clean it up and
get it back to a nice little specimen
plant so I'm working on this little
beach entrance here and I'm just going
to move around some of this gravel so as
I'm rinsing it and in doing so I found a
little bit more of that pennywort
running across I stripped that out and
then we're just going to continue on
rinsing
so when we're doing the rinsing of the
pond in this fashion without doing the
pressure washer remember I'm not worried
about this algae this is a good biofilm
and it takes some time to develop so I
don't want to hit it with a pressure
washer but what I do want to do is get
in behind the cracks because that's
where all the sludge is back in behind
here so I'm going to really work my hose
in these cracks and if you'll notice
what I'm getting out of here is some
pretty black water so if I want this
ecosystem to run super efficiently this
season I want to get in here and and
just kind of clean that stuff out so
work your way in around the pond like so
and one other tip I want to give you
when you're cleaning the pond we have we
have the pump clear we moved all the
gravel we have the pump down to the
lowest end of the pond and you'll see we
have this gravel all in this section and
as the pump is draining the pond down
this gravel is holding back that dirty
water that we want to get to there
so kind of what we'll do is we'll go to
the trench like this all the way across
the bottom of the pond and that allows
the dirty water and make itself all the
way over to the pump move this guy out
of the way
so now everything that I'm rinsing this
way comes into this trench and
everything that I'm rinsing on this side
comes into the trench and works its way
to the pump and then we could pump it
out to the landscape this is great
opportunity when you have the pond
drained down like this you're doing all
the rinsing to inspect all the
underwater lights so I've left the
lights the transformer turned on and
we're going to come through and check
and make sure all our lights are
adjusted I'm going to take the time and
clean the face of them off right here
when algae starts to grow on the light
fixtures it dulls the does the impact
that it has as well so we'll just check
on them they're running good if I have
any bulbs that are out right now it's a
perfect opportunity to make them change